# December 5th -- My covid carbon footprint

As I made use of a device with an internal combustion engine today for the first time since the summer it occured to me just how small my carbon footprint must now be.

First and foremost, like many, I have not been on a flight in over a year. As much as I would love to break this it is unfortunately not possible for me to make the long flights that I used to.

Next I have pretty much not been taking any form of mechanised transport since I have been studying and working from home and only really going out to go do some food shopping (on foot). Again, mostly covid related but not entirely as whilst places have been opening up I have just been choosing to stay in as I think that's what we all really ought to be doing.

Now for one completely unrelated to covid: I have cut my meat consumption down to only once or twice a week. This is mainly a climate change fighting sacrifice and that I think that future generations are going to think us barbaric once we have lab-grown meat (exciting news that we're one step closer this week). My reasoning is why wait when there are plenty of great alternatives out there and plenty of fantastic dishes that don't need meat at all.

And finally, I'm trying to cut down on my unrecyclable waste. Collecting groceries in resusable bags. Choosing items that come in glass rather than plastic (though I'm not certain on the benefits of this one). Buying food that is close to its use-by (and thus likely to be wasted) and finding creative ways to use up.

Don't mean to brag or anything, just really pleased with myself.

## ~~~
Last Updated: 2020-12-05
=> / ..
