# December 6th -- I made a 5-veggie pie

I went through a period of trying a bunch of wacky canned products a couple of months ago, in an effort to be a little more environmental. Cans are easily recycled and the energy efficiencies possible when cooking products like beans in such large quantities make it a good environmental option, as I understand. Anyway, that's a long way of saying that I've had a tin of jackfruit hanging around for a while (which itself was an environmental idea).

Finally decided I ought to just use it up and found a pot pie recipe online. I like making pies, I make them quite often and as good as veggie pie is, it doesn't compare to a good steak and kidney. I was hopefully and I went in with an open mind but alas it was not to be. As much as people like to say that meat alternatives are a perfect substitute for the real thing in this case it was not. Honstly think the veggie pie by itself would have been better. Oh well.

I also made a miscalculation with the amount of pie dough that I made and so decided to make a parcel like structure wherein the bottom and sides would wrap around the top. Normally I just make enough for just a lid because I'm lazy. I forgot to grease the bottom so it stuck and I added a little oil around the sizes to overcompensate which ended up frying the sizes.

Overall it was still a good pie (which is good because there's another 2 portions) but I won't be doing the same again.

## Related
=> ../recipes/pastry.gmi Pastry Recipe

## ~~~
Last Updated: 2020-12-06
=> / ..
