# 5-Day Bread

## Summary
* Day 1: Feed the sourdough/make the preferment
* Day 2: Make the dough
* Day 3: Shape the dough
* Day 4: Bake the bread
* Day 5: Eat the bread

## Day 1: Feed the sourdough/make the preferment

I keep my sourdough starter in the fridge between the making of loaves thereby reducing waste from not having to worry about discard. As a result, it takes a day and a feeding to return to its active self. If I were making a loaf with a commercial yeast it is on this day that I would make a poolish or some other preferment. 

## Day 2: Make the dough

1. Mix 500g of mostly (high protein) bread flour, and a mixture of any other flours with about 300g of very warm water. Let autolyse for half an hour or so.
2. Add about 100g of active starter and about 10g of salt.
3. Kneed for no more that 5 mins, just to make sure everything is incorporated and there is the beginnings of some structure.
4. Let it bulk ferment on the side, occassionally agitating it and folding some to ensure that the dough is progressing nicely.
5. Let it bulk ferment overnight in the fridge.

## Day 3: Shape the dough

1. The dough should be tight when straight out of the fridge so allow to come to room temperature for ease of shaping.
2. Decant onto a lightly floured surface, pressing out the dough as if one were making a pizza, then fold it back onto itself.
3. Tighten the ball with the aid of a bench scraper and leave for 10 minutes.
4. Repeat the shaping process as described above, so as to produce a tight boule.
5. Place in a proofing basket lined with a mix of plain and rice flour (which prevents sticking).

## Day 4: Bake the bread

Bake the bread in a cast iron dutch oven at 220 for 30 minutes and the at 180, uncovered, until the crust is sufficiently dark (don't worry about over cooking the inside). Allow to cool in the ajar oven, then further cooling on the side. Place back in the dutch oven overnight.

## Day 5: Eat the bread

It is worth waiting until the day after baking to break into the loaf as it hardens ever so sightly it becomes easier to slice and the innards don't become gummy. 

## ~~~
Last Updated: 2020-12-14
=> / ..
